All right let's talk more
about creating strings.
Now you can create strings
using the methods shown on these slides.
The first string creation method
is assigning a string literal to a string variable,
and a string literal is contained in double quotes.
So the example there is String s = "hello" in double quotes.
We can also use string constructors
of which there are several.
Now it's important to note that string constructors
for the byte, char and int arrays,
take a second parameter which represents the starting index
and also the third parameter is a count of elements
which will be copied from the array,
not an ending index.
We've got a few examples there,
String s1 = new String ("hello"),
in the parenthesis.
we've got a byte array
Bytes = .
Then the next part is String s2 = new String bytes,
which we've just defined.
And we gotta very similar thing there
but using a char array
instead of a byte array in the next line.
And finally using Stringbuilder.
Stringbuilder sb = new StringBuilder("hello")
and String s4 = new Stringsb.
So that's using String constructors.
And finally String concatenation,
in the example there,
a String s5 ="hello" + "world" + getmethodString.
All right so moving on.
In the last video I covered creating String objects
using String literals and the String constructor.
In this video,
we're going to review some of the constructors methods
which you may not have used as often
as the single parameter constructors.
Now these constructors have an offset parameter
and a count parameter,
and set the new String object to a partial region
of the character sequence being passed to the constructor.
So in other words,
you're setting the value of the new String
to some substring of the parameter string
passed to the constructor.
Now the beginning offset
is an inclusive offset,
meaning the character at that offset
will be included in the substring.
Now what is interesting to note
and may cause headaches on the exam,
is that for constructors,
the parameter after the starting index parameter,
is not an ending index parameter,
but rather it's a count of characters to be included
after the beginning offset.
So if this count plus the offset
exceeds the number of characters
in the sequence being passed,
you will get a runtime error,
and we'll see an example of that in this video.
So let's explore some examples.
Now I'm still in the Strings project from the last video,
but what I'm going to do
is create a new class String constructor
and then paste and code him.
(mouse and keyboard clicking)
all right so this code simply creates
three String objects with the same value
using a char array, a byte array and an int array.
A list of code points.
So you see we got a full loop here for the char
going through A to Z,
and adding it to our char, our int array
and also our bytes array,
and once we've done that we then actually go through
and creating a string using constructors
based on the relevant type,
whether it's an int, a char or a byte.
Note a couple things,
first if we just go back up and look at the code,
we're needing to do casts on lines 21 and 24,
although looking at the line 24 there,
casting C to an int is actually redundant anyways,
we don't need to technically do that,
but certainly to create a byte array
casting alphabet character to a byte,
we need to do that.
But also,
make a note down here
that you can't create a String with an integer array
with a simple one args constructor,
so we're using offset = 0
and length being the length of the array,
to get the full alphabet.
So keep that in mind as well,
and that's of course the code on line 39.
So if you run this code,
(mouse clicking)
probably nothing new there for you to see,
but it's just a review.
But let's now explore constructors a little bit more,
so I'm gonna add some more code now,
to the end of this method.
(mouse clicking and keyboard typing)
You see I'm creating a String from the character array,
so I've actually run this.
Notice that we've got a run time exception here,
specifically we've got a String index out of bounds.
Now you can see here that we're passing
in alphabet_Len to the constructor,
but we're starting at offset 1 now.
Because the third parameter is a length and not an offset,
the code is failing and that's why we're getting this crash.
Note that the length parameter for constructors
cannot exceed the lengh of your input or A,
the starting offset in other words.
Right so clearly that's a problem,
to fix this we need to replace the code on line 44,
specifically, the third argument down here,
that should be alphabet_len - offset
and if we do that,
(mouse clicking)
we're passing the correct value,
and the code actually works.
And you can see now we're pretty into character
where you're starting at the offset inclusive
that we defined.
Now let's try another example,
we'd wanna maybe get a substring of characters,
we're gonna change a call to the constructor
for our int array to be even more specific,
we only want the values that represent the letters
F through J for example.
So to do that,
(keyboard typing)
you cans see that we've got the offset = 5,
int length = 5,
and we run this code now,
intString 2 = fghij.
Alright and finally,
you should know that you can specify the character set,
or the character set name as a fourth parameter
when creating a String object from a byte array.
So in this following code which I'm pasting now,
(keyboard typing)
so I'm specifying the character set,
but I only want the bytes that represent the letters
C through K.
You can see I'm doing that by using the
offset = 2,
a length = 9,
but also passing the character set,
in this case,
java.nio.charset.StandardCharsets.ISO_8859_1
So if you run this,
(mouse clicking)
we get the characters between C and K inclusive
in byteString2.
Right, so let's end off the hour here,
in the next one we're gonna start talking about
creating a String object
using the String concatenate operator.
See you in the next video.